<p>about me</p>

<p>My name is Amanda Allard Cline. I am one crafty historian. What do I mean that I am a crafty historian? I studied history passionately, but often felt like it was at the expense of an earlier passion: To craft. To make. To create.</p>

<p>It feels like it's been a really long time since I graduated from the University of Florida (Go Gators!) with a Master's in History. I studied the History of Science, and more particularly the early modern period--Copernicus to Newton--under Dr. Robert A. Hatch. However I really looked at most intellectual and scientific achievements from the early Greeks to the 1800s, and then the science and math got too hard. I left academia for academia of a different sort.</p>

<p>I taught Social Studies at a local, public charter school for three years. It was wonderful. I got to share the joy and the need for history in everyday life with elementary and middle school students. We did so many crafty projects! At one point an overwhelming amount of third graders thought I should run for president.</p>

<p>After leaving my home in Gainesville, Florida, I moved to the Washington DC area. I knew the opportunities to be a crafty historian would be exponential. I was correct. I began teaching Western Civilization survey courses at Northern Virginia Community College. While my students and I had less time making art, the rest of my time was spent at George Washington’s Mount Vernon. Lecturing at the college and talking to folks about history provided me with an opportunity to create a strong personal voice and excellent presentation techniques. I also learned a slew of crafty skills: spinning, weaving, knitting, dying wool, farming and gardening. I’ve made whiskey in an 18th century distillery; I’ve hand crafted an iron nail; I’ve cooked an apple pie over a fire.</p>

<p>I love to talk to folks about history. To tell a story. To investigate the way that we tell stories and write history. To realize that history is a story about our present selves. In January 2013 I enrolled in HIS 295: Topics in Digital History with Dr. Charles Evans. This course rekindled an interest that I had started a year before--a nerdy, crafty history blog. I wanted to use the blog to flex my rusty writing and research muscles. People wonder all the time; there are only a few that will spend the needed hour-or-so to research what they wonder. This website is a synopsis of that hour-or-so research from a few years ago. I should really pick it up again, but I’m working on a different craft.</p>

That craft is the intersection of design, technology, and education. I had gained a unique set of skills through a variety of work experience, all of which had been dedicate to the presentation of knowledge and information to the public. But my pursuit of history led me along a path, away from my earliest love of art and design. In the spring of 2013, I began to take courses working towards a certification in Graphic Design or Interactive Design.</p>


<p>My husband Brendan and I are currently, happily, residing in Austin, Texas. I guide and teach Early College Start students through their Austin Community College US History courses. I am still slowly building the design experience I want.</p>

<p>When I’m not a historian or a designer, I’m crafting my soul. I have been known to lead the occasional cycle class at the gym. I am a wayward comic collector and bookworm. I'm a spinner, a hiker, a biker, a would-be camper, and recreational disc golfer. I’m a lover of dogs and foxes (because I’m crafty like a fox!) The music scene in Austin has made me a bit of a junkie. Occasionally, Brendan will come home and find glue and scrap paper from one end of the house to the other as I make art.</p>

<p>You have questions? I have answers! And they may even be the answers to your questions. You can email me at amandorka@gmail.com!</p>



graphic design

Bass Phantom Album Covers (can we get all on one line? If not then Bass Phantom on one and Album Covers on the other)
2014, digital

Specifications: Design an album cover using at least three images. Include a band name and album cover. Think particularly about the genre of music this band makes.

One Crafty Quiz
2014, digital

Specifications: Design eight (8) screens for a Quiz Game App. The quiz can be geared towards children or adults. Use the supplied quiz questions or find your own. The visual user interface is being designed; these apps will not function on any device. Execute your app screen design keeping in mind user experience, user interface functions, and readability. For now, this app design will only be executed in the portrait orientation.

Refresh Package Design
2013, digital and print

Specifications: Use the template provided (including the required type only), design the package. Design must be executed in Illustrator and InDesign. No Photoshop! No photographic images. All art must be of your own design. Use only four (4) colors (Pantone Solid Uncoated library), one of which must be black. Also cut, score, fold, glue and assemble to make a client-ready comprehensive 3-D model of your box and labels.


The Great Chair Challenge (leave off project)
2013, digital

Specifications: Create an announcement poster and reminder (flyer, email blast, save the date card, etc) for the second annual Great Chair Challenge at Northern Virginia Community College, using the GCC logo. The Great Chair Challenge asks NVCC interior design students to not only think outside of the box, but to be aware of how their design decisions affect their community and environment. Participants will be charged with recycling a discarded chair into a rehabilitated chair or art piece.

Letterforms
2013, digital

Specifications: Reduce two letterforms down to their most critical elements, so that each is recognizable. Compose an 8” x 8” piece, with four 4 x 4” panels. Panels are arranged as follows. Black letterform on white background  is above the same white letterform on black background. Second white letterform on black background, is above black letterform on white background.

Mason (A Study)
2014, digital

Specifications: Choose a typeface and create a study. Provide a brief history and use of the type. Include the creator’s name and year created.  The study should include all upper and lower case, each numeric, and at least five (5) special characters.

One Hundred Lines (no project)
2013, digital

Specifications: Create a coherent and designed piece that includes one hundred (100) lines, ten (10) squares, twenty (20) circles, and twenty (20) arcs.

Self-Portrait Collage
2014, digital

Specifications: Create a digital portrait that has the quality of a print magazine collage. 

Recipe Card
2014, digital

Specifications: Design a recipe card that will be handed out at a local grocery store. The goal is to capture the style of the food by using typography. The design should convey the information, yet also give the consumer a sense of what is unique about the recipe. The card will be two-sided, one side will offer a visual pull (both graphically and typographically) and the other side will be informative content, i.e. ingredients, directions, etc.

traditional art

Cope Book
2013, mixed media, altered book

Color Transcription Remix (all on one line?)
2014, acrylic

High Key, Low Key
2014, acrylic

Homeshaker
2014, mixed media

Imagined Perspective
2014, pencil

Negative Space
2014, charcoal

Think Outside.
2014, acrylic

web design

Hourly Owl Wire Frame
2014, digital

Specifications: Create a wire frame for a website that shows users what business are open at a specific hour in a specific location, including current location. Use logo provided.

The Scientific Revolution

Specification: 