Flowers and groundcovers

    

Black-eyed Susan

    Black-eyed Susan, Rudbeckia hirta, is a short lived perrenial which reseeds itself when conditions are right.  It is drought tolerant and blooms bright yellow, daisy-like flowers with dark centers throughout the summer months.  Prefers dry sites.  Grows in full sun.
        Black-eyed Susan: Floridata
        Black-eyed Susan: IFAS
        Black-eyed Susan: IRC
        Black-eyed Susan: Plant Atlas
    

Blanket Flower

    Blanket Flower, Gaillardia pulchella, is a showy annual that has dark orange and gold daisy-like flowers which bloom throughout the warm months.  It is drought tolerant and reseeds readily.  Needs thinning or may take over garden in places where there is little competition.
        Blanket Flower: Floridata
        Blanket Flower: IFAS
        Blanket Flower: Plant Atlas
    

Butterfly Weed

    Butterfly Weed, Asclepias tuberosa , is a native milkweed and important larval host plant for the Monarch Butterfly.  It is drought tolerant and has pretty orange flowers.  Can be confused with non-native milkweeds, so be carefull!.  Grows in full sun.
        Butterfly Weed: IFAS
        Butterfly Weed: IRC
        Butterfly Weed: Plant Atlas
    

Coontie

    Coontie, Zamia pumila, is our only native cycad in the United States.  It is a dioecious plant and having both male and female plants in the garden is always preferrable.
        Coontie: Floridata
        Coontie: IFAS
        Coontie: IRC
        Coontie: Plant Atlas
    

Dixie, Prairie or Blue Flag Iris

    Dixie, Prairie or Blue Flag Iris, Iris hexagona, is an aquatic plant that must have its feet wet for a large portion of the year.  Flowers in early spring.  Great for pond or bog plantings.  Grows in part shade to full sun.
        Dixie, Prairie or Blue Flag Iris: IRC
        Dixie, Prairie or Blue Flag Iris: Plant Atlas
    

Dotted Horsemint

    Dotted horsemint, Monarda punctata, grows to 3 ft tall, and can develop in bunches just as wide.  It develops light pink to lavendar leafy bracts that are very showy while the blooms themselves are relatively inconspicuous.  Good butterfly attractor.  Grows in full sun.
        Dotted Horsemint: Floridata
        Dotted Horsemint: IFAS
        Dotted Horsemint: IRC
        Dotted Horsemint: Plant Atlas
    

Goldenrod

    Goldenrod, Pinebarren: Solidago fistulosI, Chapman's: S. odora var chapmanii, Seaside: S. sempervirens, Wand or Narrow-leafed: S. stricta., is a group of adaptable, hardy perennial plants with yellow flowers that bloom throughout the warmer months, but mainly in fall.  Spreads by underground runners.  Grows in full sun.
        Goldenrod, Chapman's: IRC
        Goldenrod, Chapman's: Plant Atlas
        Goldenrod, Pinebarren: IRC
        Goldenrod, Pinebarren: Plant Atlas
        Goldenrod, Seaside: IRC
        Goldenrod, Seaside: Plant Atlas
        Goldenrod, Wand or Narrow-leafed: IRC
        Goldenrod, Wand or Narrow-leafed: Plant Atlas
    

Liatris

    Liatris or Gayfeather, Chapman's: Liatris chapmanii, Slender: L gracilis, Dense: L. spicata, provides bright, deep pink flowers in spikes in the late summer, early fall, depending on the species.   A perennial, it spreads via seed and is a wonderful addition to the native garden.  Prefers dry sites.  Grows in full sun.
        Liatris, Chapman's: IRC
        Liatris, Chapman's: Plant Atlas
        Liatris, Dense: IRC
        Liatris, Dense: Plant Atlas
        Liatris, Slender: IRC
        Liatris, Slender: Plant Atlas
    

Lyre-leaf Sage

    Lyre-leaf Sage, Salvia lyrata, has pale pink to blue-purple flowers which bloom in spring.  Prefers damp sites, but will grow in dryer areas.  Grows in full sun.
        Lyre-leaf Sage: Floridata
        Lyre-leaf Sage: Plant Atlas
    

Pickerelweed

    Pickerelweed, Pontederia cordata, is an aquatic plant great for pond and canal margins.  It has a spike of blue to purple flowers in the spring and summer months. Can grow 2-4 feet tall and spreads rapidly from underwater rhizomes.  Grows in full sun.
        Pickerelweed: IFAS
        Pickerelweed: IRC
        Pickerelweed: Plant Atlas
    

Pineland Heliotrope

    Pineland Heliotrope, Heliotropium polyphyllum, is a low growing, sprawling plant that provides good groundcover. that provides nectar to many small butterflies and other insects.
        Pineland Heliotrope: IRC
        Pineland Heliotrope: Plant Atlas
    

Scorpionstail

    Scorpionstail, Heliotropium angiospermum, is a shrub-like wildflower which grows 1-3 ft in height.  It is an important nectar plant to many butterflies and other insects.
        Scorpionstail: IRC
        Scorpionstail: Plant Atlas
    

Spiderwort

    Spiderwort, Tradescantia ohiensis, enjoys moist soils, but will grow in dryer sites.  It has blue to purple flowers which bloom throughout the warm season.  Will grow in large clumps when grown in optimum circumstances.  Grows in part shade to full sun.
        Spiderwort: Florida Gardener
        Spiderwort: IFAS
        Spiderwort: Plant Atlas
    

Sunshine Mimosa

    Sunshine Mimosa, Mimosa strigillosa, is a low growing ground cover which has pretty, deep pink, powder-puff flowers in the summer.  It is drought tolerant but enjoys moist soils best.  Salt tolerant.  Recently named one of the top six plants of the year by the Florida Nursery, Growers & Landscape Association (FNGLA).
        Sunshine Mimosa: FNGLA
        Sunshine Mimosa: IFAS
        Sunshine Mimosa: IRC
        Sunshine Mimosa: Plant Atlas
    

Tickseed

    Tickseed, Coreopsis spp., is Florida's state flower.  Coreopsis leavenworthii is a popular annual with pretty bright yellow, daisy-like flowers with a dark center, that will readily reseed itself in the native garden as long as there is not a thick layer of mulch.
        Tickseed: IFAS
        Tickseed: IRC
        Tickseed: Plant Atlas
    

Tropical or Scarlet Sage

    Tropical or Scarlet sage, Salvia coccinea, has scarlet 2-lipped blossoms on an erect spike. The plant may rarely grow to 4 feet. It prefers full sun but will tolerate some shade. Scarlet sage grows well in poor soil and is drought tolerant: It has a long flowering period and will readily self-seed.
        Tropical or Scarlet Sage: Floridata
        Tropical or Scarlet Sage: IFAS
        Tropical or Scarlet Sage: IRC
        Tropical or Scarlet Sage: Plant Atlas
    

Yellowtop

    Yellowtop, Flaveria linearis,grows to 2 ft tall in mounds that can be wider.  It gets covered in yellow blooms for most of the warm season.  Pruning back in the late fall, early winter will allow new growth to take over in the spring.  Grows in full sun.
        Yellowtop: IRC
        Yellowtop: Plant Atlas


Grasses

    
Fakahatchee Grass

    Fakahatchee Grass, Tripsacum dactyloides, is a tall bunch grass that can grow to 6 ft.  It is an impressive grass that can be used as an accent or background plant.  It grows best in moist situations, but will tolerate dryer conditions.  Grows in full sun.
        Fakahatchee Grass: Floridata
        Fakahatchee Grass: IRC
        Fakahatchee Grass: Plant Atlas
    

Muhly Grass

    Muhly grass, Muhlenbergia capillaris, a clumping grass which has a heathery appearance. This grass is drought and salt tolerant and often used near beaches. In the fall the flowers and seeds are pink in color, giving the feathery grass a pink haze. Once established muhly grass needs little care.
        Muhly Grass: Floridata
        Muhly Grass: IFAS
        Muhly Grass: IRC
        Muhly Grass: Plant Atlas
    

Sand Cordgrass

    Sand cordgrass, Spartina bakeri, is a grass which forms large clumps and is evergreen. It is used in landscaping as a specimen clump or in apartment and condominiums to break up parking areas. Sand cordgrass prefers full sun and damp areas but will adapt to dry areas.
        Sand Cordgrass: Floridata
        Sand Cordgrass: IFAS
        Sand Cordgrass: IRC
        Sand Cordgrass: Plant Atlas